---
title: Feminism
published: true
---

I'm going to work backwards from the thought about understanding feminism intuitively. (It was a long walk back from Parkdale).
Nothing in particular happened, but I've been reading a lot of posts surrounding the #metoo tag.
I understand it intellectually with respect to things like the wage gap, performative expectations in family and in public, and increased expectations in general. In addition to that it's also necessary to be on guard a lot of the time, and not just physically either.

My first thought was regarding equality and gender discrimination. It's obvious writing it out, but I know for
a fact that I've formed initial opinions and notions about people based on their gender. It's often gone unchecked and
unacknowledged, because I kept telling myself well of course I knew better. Not making assumptions requires vigilance. Equality in my mind means treating people like I'd want to be treated and for the most part have stuck to that, and yet haven't really done anything to actively make things MORE equal. 

I'm 100% certain I've never sexually assaulted somebody. Once again though theres more nuance, and doesn't take into consideration things like leering, malegazing, unsolicited conversation, touching and simple proximity. Some/all of these I've definitely done. There are other things that I wasn't really aware of, like why asking a woman out on a date while she's at work is a bad idea (can't just leave), or how jokes can normalize abuse. It sucks that women have to basically be on guard a lot of
the time, so it follows logically that men have to be on guard too, and call out sexist language and abuse as it happens.

Ultimately I realized I've been looking at this topic intellectually instead of more actively being mindful of my language, actions, intentions and assumptions. I'm not sure what other actionable items look like yet, but I'm giving it a lot of long, hard thought.
